---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "juju_controller Resource - terraform-provider-juju"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  A resource that represents a Juju Controller.
---

# juju_controller (Resource)

A resource that represents a Juju Controller.



<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `cloud` (Attributes) The cloud where the controller will operate. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--cloud))
- `cloud_credential` (Attributes, Sensitive) Cloud credentials to use for bootstrapping the controller. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--cloud_credential))

### Optional

- `agent_version` (String) The version of agent binaries.
- `bootstrap_base` (String) The base for the bootstrap machine.
- `bootstrap_config` (Map of String) Configuration options that apply during the bootstrap process.
- `bootstrap_constraints` (Map of String) Constraints for the bootstrap machine.
- `controller_config` (Map of String) Configuration options for the bootstrapped controller. Note that removing a key from this map will not unset it in the controller, instead it will be left unchanged on the controller.
- `controller_model_config` (Map of String) Configuration options to be set for the controller model.
- `juju_binary` (String) The path to the juju CLI binary.
- `model_constraints` (Map of String) Constraints for all workload machines in models.
- `model_default` (Map of String) Configuration options to be set for all models.
- `name` (String) The name to be assigned to the controller. Changing this value will require the controller to be destroyed and recreated by terraform.
- `storage_pool` (Attributes) Options for the initial storage pool (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--storage_pool))

### Read-Only

- `api_addresses` (List of String) API addresses of the controller.
- `ca_cert` (String) CA certificate for the controller.
- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.
- `password` (String, Sensitive) Admin password for the controller.
- `username` (String) Admin username for the controller.

<a id="nestedatt--cloud"></a>
### Nested Schema for `cloud`

Required:

- `auth_types` (Set of String) The authentication type(s) supported by the cloud.
- `name` (String) The name of the cloud
- `type` (String) The type of the cloud .

Optional:

- `ca_certificates` (Set of String) CA certificates for the cloud.
- `config` (Map of String) Configuration options for the cloud.
- `endpoint` (String) The API endpoint for the cloud.
- `host_cloud_region` (String) The host cloud region for the cloud.
- `region` (Attributes) The cloud region where the controller will operate. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--cloud--region))

<a id="nestedatt--cloud--region"></a>
### Nested Schema for `cloud.region`

Required:

- `endpoint` (String) The API endpoint for the region.
- `name` (String) The name of the region.

Optional:

- `identity_endpoint` (String) The identity endpoint for the region.
- `storage_endpoint` (String) The storage endpoint for the region.



<a id="nestedatt--cloud_credential"></a>
### Nested Schema for `cloud_credential`

Required:

- `attributes` (Map of String) Authentication attributes (key-value pairs specific to the auth type).
- `auth_type` (String) The authentication type (e.g., 'userpass', 'oauth2', 'access-key').
- `name` (String) The name of the credential.


<a id="nestedatt--storage_pool"></a>
### Nested Schema for `storage_pool`

Required:

- `name` (String) The name of the storage pool.
- `type` (String) The storage pool type

Optional:

- `attributes` (Map of String) Additional storage pool attributes.
