---
# generated using template templates/index.md.tmpl
page_title: "Juju Provider"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  
---

# Juju Provider

The provider can be used to interact with [Juju][0] - a model-driven Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM) by Canonical.

Initially this provider allows you to:

* Manage models,
* Manage applications and deploy charms from CharmHub,
* Manage integrations.

In future the provider will be extended to support more of Juju's capabilities.

## Prerequisites

### Juju CLI configuration store

The provider has a dependency on Juju CLI configuration store.

In order to operate, the provider expects configuration to be found in one of the following locations:

* `$XDG_DATA_HOME/juju`
* `~/.local/share/juju`

The intention is to remove this dependency in future.

## Example Usage

```terraform
provider "juju" {
  controller_addresses = "10.225.205.241:17070,10.225.205.242:17070"

  username = "jujuuser"
  password = "password1"

  ca_certificate = file("~/ca-cert.pem")
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Optional

- `ca_certificate` (String) This is the certificate to use for identification. This can also be set by the `JUJU_CA_CERT` environment variable
- `controller_addresses` (String) This is the Controller addresses to connect to, defaults to localhost:17070, multiple addresses can be provided in this format: <host>:<port>,<host>:<port>,.... This can also be set by the `JUJU_CONTROLLER_ADDRESSES` environment variable.
- `password` (String, Sensitive) This is the password of the username to be used. This can also be set by the `JUJU_PASSWORD` environment variable
- `username` (String) This is the username registered with the controller to be used. This can also be set by the `JUJU_USERNAME` environment variable


[0]: https://juju.is "Juju | Operator lifecycle manager for K8s and traditional workloads"