---
# generated using template templates/resources/model.md.tmpl
page_title: "juju_model Resource - terraform-provider-juju"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  A resource that represent a Juju Model.
---

# juju_model (Resource)

A resource that represent a Juju Model.

## Example Usage
```terraform
resource "juju_model" "this" {
  name = "development"

  cloud {
    name   = "aws"
    region = "eu-west-1"
  }

  config = {
    logging-config              = "<root>=INFO"
    development                 = true
    no-proxy                    = "jujucharms.com"
    update-status-hook-interval = "5m"
  }

  timeouts {
    create = "60m" # default is 30m
  }
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `name` (String) The name to be assigned to the model. Changing this value will require the model to be destroyed and recreated by terraform.

### Optional

- `annotations` (Map of String) Annotations for the model
- `cloud` (Block List) Juju Cloud where the model will operate. Changing this value will cause the model to be destroyed and recreated by terraform. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--cloud))
- `config` (Map of String) Override default model configuration
- `constraints` (String) Constraints imposed to this model
- `credential` (String) Credential used to add the model

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.
- `type` (String) Type of the model. Set by the Juju's API server
- `uuid` (String) The uuid of the model

<a id="nestedblock--cloud"></a>
### Nested Schema for `cloud`

Required:

- `name` (String) The name of the cloud

Optional:

- `region` (String) The region of the cloud

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
# Models can be imported using the model's uuid
$ terraform import juju_model.development a3c2c72a-75f6-43b9-9b2d-d85d5449cb2f
```

### Limitations of Import

Any entries of the `config` attribute specified in the Terraform configuration are ignored. You can add entries to the `config` map and manage them using Terraform after import.

Once imported you must add the desired model configuration and run a Terraform apply. This will report no changes but Terraform will be tracking the specified model configuration.

The limitation is intentional. It exists as, without it, Terraform would import all model configuration including defaults. It may not be desirable to manage defaults using Terraform.
